Name: Jory Ehman
Date: March 12th 2026

Environment:
macOS (development), CLion 2024.2
Linux (opsys.cs.umsl.edu – final testing environment)

How to Compile the Project:
Type: make

How to Clean the Project Directory:
Type: make clean

How To Run:
./oss -n x -s x -t x -f logfile.txt

Command Line Options:
-n x : Total number of worker processes to launch (minimum 1)
-s x : Maximum number of concurrent processes allowed (minimum 1)
-t x : Maximum runtime bound for worker processes in seconds
-f x : Log file where OSS output will be written
-h   : Displays usage information

Default Values:

If no arguments are provided:
n = 1
s = 1
t = 1

If certain options are omitted, defaults apply.

Example:
./oss -n 4 -t 3 -f log.txt

Results in:
s = 1

Program Behavior:

This project simulates a simple operating system scheduler using
shared memory and message queues.

The oss program maintains a simulated system clock and launches
worker processes using fork() and exec(). A process table
containing Process Control Blocks (PCB) is used to track all
active worker processes.

Workers attach to the shared memory clock and only run when
they receive a message from oss. Each worker checks the system
clock, determines if its assigned runtime has elapsed, and
sends a message back to oss indicating whether it will continue
running or terminate.

The oss scheduler sends messages to workers in a round-robin
fashion and prints the process table every 0.5 seconds of
simulated time. When all workers terminate, oss prints a summary
report including the total number of processes launched and the
total number of messages sent.

Testing SIGINT (Ctrl+C) and SIGALRM (60-Second Timeout):

To test signal handling and cleanup behavior, run the program
with large input values so it executes long enough to manually
interrupt or allow the 60-second alarm to trigger.

Example for manual Ctrl+C test:
./oss -n 1000 -s 5 -t 5 -f log.txt
Then press Ctrl+C during execution.

Expected behavior:
- OSS prints the SIGINT cleanup message
- All active child processes are terminated
- Shared memory and message queues are removed

Example for automatic 60-second timeout test:
./oss -n 1000 -s 7 -t 40 -f log.txt

Expected behavior:
- Program runs until 60 seconds of real time
- Alarm signal triggers
- OSS prints a cleanup message
- All children are terminated
- Shared memory and message queues are removed

Generative AI Usage: ChatGPT

Prompts Used:
- “Explain how shared memory and message queues coordinate processes.”
- “Verify round-robin scheduling behavior in a simulated OS project.”
- “Help confirm signal handling and cleanup logic.”

Summary:
ChatGPT was used as a learning aid to better understand shared
memory communication, message queue coordination, process
scheduling logic, and signal handling for cleanup procedures.

All code was reviewed, modified, tested, and fully understood
before final submission.

(Links to GPT windows)
    4760 Operating Systems - https://chatgpt.com/share/69b37ed4-118c-8005-adf4-ba109838e35b